[DPE-5220] Explanation about cluster configuration (#248)
canonical/kafka-operator: docs/explanation/e-configuration.md

# Overview of a cluster configuration content

> [Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org) is a distributed system requiring a solution to coordinate and sync metadata between all active brokers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org) is an open-source distributed event streaming platform that requires an external solution to coordinate and sync metadata between all active brokers.
```

> One of those solutions is [ZooKeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of such solutions is [ZooKeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org).
```

> Here are some of the responsibilities of ZooKeeper in a Kafka cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some of the responsibilities of ZooKeeper in a Kafka cluster:

```

- **Cluster membership**: through regular heartbeats, it keep tracks of the brokers entering and leaving the cluster, providing an up-to-date list of brokers.
- **Controller election**: one of the Kafka brokers is responsible for managing the leader/follower status for all the partitions. ZooKeeper is used to elect a controller and making sure there is only one of it.
- **Topic configuration**: each topic can be replicated on multiple partitions. ZooKeeper keeps track of the locations of the partitions and replicas, so that high-availability is still attained when a broker shuts down. Topic-specific configuration overrides (e.g. message retention and size) are also stored in ZooKeeper.
- **Access control and authentication**: ZooKeeper stores access control lists (ACL) for Kafka resources, to ensure only the proper, authorized, users or groups can read or write on each topic.

Technically, those previous elements are stored in zNodes, the hierarchical unit data structure in ZooKeeper.
Using as example a Charmed Kafka `kafka` related to a Charmed ZooKeeper `zookeeper`:

> - the list of the broker ids part of the cluster would be found in `/kafka/brokers/ids`

Author: Added a couple of sentences to clarify in 16e3926b, let me know what you think

> - the list of the broker ids part of the cluster would be found in `/kafka/brokers/ids`

Reviewer: I added a suggestion to make the wording a bit more accurate since we do not specify the values or config parameters, but rather introduce a list of responsibilities right before (which mentions the config parameters implicitly).

One of such solutions is [ZooKeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org).

Here are some of the responsibilities of ZooKeeper in a Kafka cluster:

- **Cluster membership**: through regular heartbeats, it keep tracks of the brokers entering and leaving the cluster, providing an up-to-date list of brokers.
- **Controller election**: one of the Kafka brokers is responsible for managing the leader/follower status for all the partitions. ZooKeeper is used to elect a controller and making sure there is only one of it.
- **Topic configuration**: each topic can be replicated on multiple partitions. ZooKeeper keeps track of the locations of the partitions and replicas, so that high-availability is still attained when a broker shuts down. Topic-specific configuration overrides (e.g. message retention and size) are also stored in ZooKeeper.
- **Access control and authentication**: ZooKeeper stores access control lists (ACL) for Kafka resources, to ensure only the proper, authorized, users or groups can read or write on each topic.

> Technically, those configurations values are stored in znodes, the hierarchical unit data structure in ZooKeeper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The values for the configuration parameters mentioned above are stored in znodes, the hierarchical unit data structure in ZooKeeper.
```
